[THEME MUSIC]
>>We have breaking news on the
search for an American cargo
ship that disappeared
during Hurricane Joaquin.
About an hour ago,
the ship's owner
told family members the nearly
800-foot "El Faro" sank.
A CBS News crew was aboard
a search plane on Sunday
when a debris field was located.
This morning,
searchers found a body.
The ship was sailing
from Jacksonville
to San Juan through
the Bermuda Triangle.
33 crew members were on
board, including 28 Americans.
>>GEORGE NOORY: And
as the announcer
just mentioned, tragically
that ship was going
through the Bermuda Triangle.
And on "Beyond Belief," you will
find out more about that area.
>>For centuries, the
500,000-mile area known
as the Bermuda Triangle has
captivated the imagination.
Many people have tried to
solve the puzzle over why
ships and planes seem to lose
their way in the Triangle.
David Pares, an Omaha-based
science instructor
and former Air
Force meteorologist,
has a theory of his own.
He thinks the intense energy
and thunderstorms form naturally
occurring space warp fields.
David unravels this fascinating
weather phenomenon today
on "Beyond Belief."
>>NOORY: David, this
is an amazing area
that I have been fascinated
with since I was a youngster,
and you have too.
>>DAVID PARES: Ever
since high school,
reading "The Mysteries
of The Bermuda Triangle,"
particularly focusing
on Flight 19.
That caught my fancy.
It's a sad occurrence to have
lost five aircraft like that
with all their crew.
And it was something
that kept eating at me.
What could I figure out?
How could I prevent something
from happening in the future,
alerting pilots and possibly
cargo ships, marine activity?
And I wondered what was really
behind all the disappearances.
So, over the years-- and I
would say since high school--
I've dabbled in it now and then.
But for the last 14
years, I've really
spent a lot of time looking into
the mysteries of the Bermuda
Triangle.
And I guess one of the
things about the Triangle
is that there's a lot of
environmental things going on
out there.
I've sailed out there before,
been on a ocean liner.
I have flown on
aircraft as well,
and have never had an
encounter of anything of--
>>NOORY: Instrumentation
hasn't gone wacky or anything
like that?
>>PARES: No, no.
But that area off of Miami,
the 20 degrees north latitude,
is very eruptive with
weather conditions.
And what I was able to
do is I went back in time
through weather forensics.
I got a bunch of
charts and data.
And I studied 26 aircraft
losses out of 56.
I picked them at random.
And then I analyzed
each missing occurrence.
And what happened was a
pattern began to emerge
after analyzing the weather.
And what was going on
is that these aircraft
would go missing in between
a high and low pressure
system-- in a zone
of transition,
as they refer to it.
And that's where
the circulation goes
from the low, back into the
high, and up and around.
So, that generates theory
of the week upper-air winds,
light variable winds.
And in this context, I found
out that in about 7 o'clock
in the morning-- and this would
start in the Key West area,
actually.
That begins to show the
identification of generation
of thunderstorms
for the afternoon.
That light variable winds under
10 knots, dew point depressions
between the ambient air and
the dew point of 6 degrees.
And when you had
those factors and wind
flow out of the
east and northeast,
you would get towering cumulus
develop into the Key West area.
So, cumulus, towering
cumulus, that indicating
that there was unstable air.
And by 3 o'clock
in the afternoon,
as we migrate up latitude-wise
from Key West up into off
of Miami, you get
these tremendously huge
thunderstorms.
>>NOORY: That just appear?
>>PARES: Well, it takes a
little bit of time to develop.
But they'll rapidly build
within about 45 minutes.
And then they
sustain themselves,
because the ocean
temperature at that point
is always pretty warm.
And that's a natural place
of energy for the storms
to feed themselves.
And so, sustainable updrafts.
But these thunderstorms,
because the equatorial regions
have atmospheres up to between
80,000 to 100,000 feet--
depends on the season of
the year and what not.
But these thunderstorms
will go up
to 65-- I've measured them
on radar when I was a radar
operator in MacDill
Air Force Base years
ago up to 85,000 feet.
>>NOORY: That's huge.
>>PARES: Yeah.
And a lot of times, if we go
up into the mid latitudes,
55,000-foot thunderstorms,
severe weather,
particularly like in 41 degrees
north latitude, like in Omaha,
for example.
That's when you want to
batten down the hatches
and seek some shelter because
of the severe weather activity.
>>NOORY: David, but when these
planes are flying through this,
these planes have disappeared--
take us on a mock flight.
What's happening to us
if we're in one of these?
>>PARES: Well, what these
storms-- and let's go even
above that, because in
recent encounters that I've
been down doing measurements,
we've had storm activity up
to 78,000 feet.
And so they're
tremendously huge.
The girth of the thunderstorms
there in comparison
to the land, land,
about 5 miles of girth
when you're out-- and that's
the width of the storm.
When you're out into
the oceanic areas,
as I define these
thunderstorm activity,
we're looking at about 25 miles.
Now, the effects of these
storms are tremendous.
I mean, they have
potential energy
that generates up to 10 to
the 15th watts of power.
The US generates 10 to
the 12th every year.
Just one thunderstorm.
>>NOORY: One storm.
>>PARES: Now, these things
emanate electrical energy
like crazy.
They ionize the air.
And that effect can go out to
25 to 30 miles beyond the storm.
And this air is all ionized, and
so these are charged particles.
And so when the aircraft
come into these vicinities,
and they're mostly all
made of metal, correct?
Even carbon will
attract electricity.
And so what happens is that
as some of these aircraft
get too close to
these thunderstorms,
the ionized air will
gravitate to the aircraft.
And it generates a donut
around the aircraft.
The pilot can see up
and he can see down,
but he can't see out on
either side of the aircraft.
And we've had numerous cases
of aircraft reporting this.
And eventually the
ionization bleeds away.
And then the pilot
can see again.
>>NOORY: But if it doesn't,
they're in trouble.
>>PARES: They're in real
trouble, because at that point,
the instruments are going--
their compasses are spinning.
>>NOORY: So, they're
going down when
they think they're going up?
Or what's happening?
>>PARES: This is a process
of pilot disorientation.
Most pilots don't look
at their instruments
when that-- most of the pilots
that get involved in this
are VFR pilots,
Visual Flight Rules.
And so they're not really
trained in the IFR,
utilizing your instruments.
>>NOORY: But if your
instruments are out of whack,
that's not going to
help you anyway, right?
>>PARES: Well, when most of the
instruments go out of whack,
the pilot then begins to think
that everything is wrong.
But in these conditions,
it can change
the atmospheric pressure.
And if they're using
their inner ear
as flying by the
seat of the pants--
this is a common
terminology-- your ears
aren't perfectly balanced.
So what you'll end up doing
is you do the death spiral.
And the stick will
go over just a tad,
because you think
you're flying level
and your instruments are all--
>>NOORY: You're
going right down.
>>PARES: And you end up doing
a circular spiral like this.
And you end up
hitting the ocean.
>>NOORY: And you're gone.
>>PARES: And you're gone.
And that's it.
And then once you hit the
ocean, and if you're right off
the coast of Miami, for example,
along the east coast there,
you've got the Gulf Stream.
>>NOORY: So, the
plane flies, right?
It's not like it's stalled
out or anything like that?
>>PARES: Yeah.
There can be
possibilities Now, the FAA
has listed in charts on their
websites of potential energy
that can shut an engine down
if it isn't shielded properly.
This also can interfere with
large storm activity like this
with the electrification.
It can interfere with the
navigation, the compass,
the radios, radar, all of that.
And if it gets strong
enough, and if you're
at a particular level where
this is really intense,
then it can shut
your motor down.
>>NOORY: Now, the geographical
region of the Bermuda Triangle
is important.
Let's take a quick look at that.
>>Legend has it that
the triangle covers
the seas between Miami,
the island of Bermuda,
and Puerto Rico, an area of 1
and 1/2 million square miles.
Since 1492, when Columbus
first sailed into the area
and saw strange
lights in the sky,
the list of unexplainable
disappearances in the Bermuda
Triangle has grown.
Thousands of ships
and planes have simply
vanished-- no warning, no
distress calls, no wreckage.
>>NOORY: Why is it that region?
>>PARES: Well, you know,
there's a lot of lore
about this, the folklore.
And actually, this can
occur anywhere in the world
if the conditions are right.
Now, you have the Dragon
Triangle up near Japan.
You have the Bermuda Triangle.
I actually have
cases that are out
of England of where
aircraft disappeared
in the same type
of circumstances.
So, there's a larger focus about
the mystery within this region.
But, I mean, if you
actually analyze
some of the records of
insurance companies,
like Lloyd's of
London, they will
tell you is that
that vicinity is
no different than anywhere else
in the world as far as hazards.
And so there's a
little misgiving here
of what the real function
of the Bermuda Triangle.
I mean, it's a vast, open area.
And so anything that is being
transited across on the ocean
or in the air is going to be
subjected to large weather
encounters, ocean type of
currences-- for example,
rogue waves, which were totally
dismissed up until recently,
when an oil tanker coming back
out of Miami had a wave crash
over its--
>>NOORY: Huge waves too.
>>PARES: Huge wave.
100-foot wave.
So, we know that
these things do exist.
And this probably accounts
for a lot of ships
and small pleasure craft
and that disappearing.
These things pop
up out of nowhere.
>>NOORY: So, David, as the
ship is on the ocean's surface,
bubbles from underneath
can literally suck it down.
What is that?
>>PARES: It can.
It changes the
density of the water.
So, salt water has
a certain density.
And ships will
obviously float on it.
But if you change the
density, lessen the density
of the water, and
if a methane pocket
happens to burst
underneath the ocean floor,
then that comes up.
And then that will change
the density of the water.
>>NOORY: It's a huge
gas bubble, right?
>>PARES: And a gas bubble.
But there are tens of millions
of little tiny bubbles
that go--
>>NOORY: They're all
underneath the ship, right?
>>PARES: Right.
It's like CO2 in soda, right?
You see all the
bubbles coming up.
But it's even more
intense, obviously.
>>NOORY: No buoyancy.
>>PARES: And it reduces the
buoyancy, and the ship sinks.
They're designed to
utilize the buoyancy
of the ocean in fresh water.
But when you induce do something
that lessens the buoyancy,
then the ship will--
>>NOORY: Can you power
your way out of it?
>>PARES: It depends on
how big the area is.
But yes, and then no.
It just depends on the size of
the area that's been influenced
by the methane bubbles.
>>NOORY: And there's
really nothing unusual
or supernatural about
the Bermuda Triangle.
That's pretty
scientific, isn't it?
>>PARES: You know, I leave open
a small area for Unidentified
Flying Objects, UFOs--
>>NOORY: Capturing
them and taking them.
>>PARES: --as potential
crashing into aircraft.
There have been several cases
of reported communications
from aircraft to ground control
of UFOs encountering aircraft.
Some fly by.
They buzz the aircraft.
There have been
a couple of cases
where the UFOs actually
collided with an aircraft.
>>NOORY: That's intriguing.
>>PARES: But they never found
any of the result-- they never
found any of the debris.
And see, the other
problem in that area--
and like I said, if you're
near the east coast,
you've got the Gulf Stream.
That has a huge influence.
And so they will carry debris.
If you go down
here at this point,
you could be several hundred
miles before they ever
find the debris from the ship.
And during World
War II, for example
there was an oil tanker that was
torpedoed by the Germans just
about south of Miami, actually.
And they actually found
that 70 years later.
But it was close
to 200 miles north
of where the ship went down.
>>NOORY: How could
it be that far off?
>>PARES: The Gulf Stream.
>>NOORY: Just took it away.
>>PARES: 4 knots.
3 to 4 knots.
>>NOORY: That's all it takes.
>>PARES: And as the ship sank,
it just started to glide,
and it never did reach it.
You're talking almost 300
feet between the surface
to the bottom.
And it depends if you're onto
the continental shelf or not.
If you go over the
continental shelf,
now you've got about 7 miles of
potential that you can go down.
And so like you're
indicating, is
that there's a lot of
scientific explanation for why
things happen out there.
Most of it's weather.
It's environmental.
Rogue waves.
These huge thunderstorm
activity with
tremendous electrical energy.
I mean, we've even
had cases of pilots
flying into the
thunderstorms and then
being ejected 100 miles
outside of the thunderstorm.
And that was a
discovery made as result
of Bruce Gernon's flight in
1970, which was almost 25 years
to the date of Flight 19.
>>NOORY: We've got
some video of him.
Let's take a look at that.
That's an incredible story.
>>PARES: It is.
>>BRUCE GERNON: The deeper we
got, I noticed these flashes.
And it was some
form of lightning,
but it wasn't lightning bolts.
Just these flashes.
But there wasn't
any precipitation.
The visibility appeared
to be fairly good.
But the deeper I went,
the darker it got.
And I'd never seen
anything like that before.
So we deviated to the south.
We had been flying for
exactly 26 minutes now.
And it was then that I realized
that this storm was connected.
And it was one big
circular shape.
And we were caught
in the middle of it.
>>NOORY: He lucked out.
>>PARES: He certainly did.
He was one lucky pilot.
His encounter was he had
a circle of thunderstorms
around him near Bimini Island.
He was coming from Andros
to West Palm Beach.
>>NOORY: But you can't
fly around this, can you?
>>PARES: Oh, no.
>>NOORY: You're stuck in it.
>>PARES: Oceanic storms really
don't have much of a base.
They go right near
to the surface.
So, if you flew under there,
you would have down gusts.
>>NOORY: That'll
take you right down.
>>PARES: You'd have updrafts.
And it would push it
right into the water.
It's not of an
advisable thing to.
Do and he couldn't fly over
it, because he was indicating
that these storms had erupted
to heights of over 65,000 feet,
which, based on my research and
studies, all that is verified.
And the warm-water pools
that are out there,
this is where the
thunderstorms form up around.
Quite unique situations.
But he spotted the last two
thunderstorms coming up out
of the-- being developed.
And he noticed there
was a tunnel, a hole.
The pilots refer to
these as sucker holes.
And what was
interesting about it,
he saw a blue sky
on the other side.
>>NOORY: So, they think
they can fly through it?
>>PARES: Exactly.
Now, they're very turbulent.
And they can cause
damage to the aircraft.
And then just you're
dumped into the ocean.
>>NOORY: Could they ever
rip a wing off a plane?
>>PARES: Oh, absolutely.
>>NOORY: Oh my gosh.
>>PARES: They have in the past.
That's why they
advise pilots not to--
>>NOORY: Don't fly
through this stuff.
>>PARES: Don't fly
through a sucker hole.
But he felt he didn't
have any alternative.
He was surrounded
by thunderstorms.
He was on the return side
of his 80 gallons of fuel.
So, when you're flying
to Andros Island,
there isn't a refueling station.
So, he was flying back on
the reserves that he had.
He enters the hole
about 10,000 feet.
And then, as he exits the hole--
and the girth of this cloud
was about 25, 35 miles.
It was wide, very wide.
And as he flew through the hole,
it only took him a few seconds.
And this made it very different
than-- there was something
very unusual going on here.
He felt a hydroplaning
aircraft and he
felt a slight weightlessness
inside the cockpit
of the aircraft.
He had his father and a business
associate in the aircraft.
And as they exited
the hole, the plane
got surrounded in an
ionized condition.
He calls it electronic fog.
He couldn't see
outside the windshield.
>>NOORY: Does it have
that green mist to it?
>>PARES: His was kind of a
grayish white combination.
Other pilots, like
Charles Lindbergh,
had a greenish--
green-colored ionized mist
around his aircraft,
and Martin Caidin.
≫>NOORY: I see
that a lot, David,
in the Midwest when
a tornado's coming.
The sky turns misty green.
>>PARES: The aquamarine.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>PARES: Yeah.
I mean, those are
real indications
of severe weather approaching
with extremely unstable air,
with water vapor and everything.
And so it's that as the
sunlight comes through,
it gives you that
aquamarine appearance.
But very, very, very turbulent,
and not unlike what's
happening through the warp
tunnels-- or the sucker holes,
as pilots would refer to it.
And as he exited, was
surrounded by the ionized air.
And he made a call on the
radio, but the instruments
were all offline.
And fortunately for him,
his radio still worked.
The propeller was still going.
He makes a call to
air traffic control.
He says, where am I?
I'm lost.
>>NOORY: He had no idea.
>>PARES: Well, he knew he
was near Bimini Island,
but he couldn't find
his way at this point.
And so the approach
control told him
that there is no aircraft on
their radar at Bimini Island.
And they start yelling
into the microphone
that we are at Bimini Island.
>>NOORY: And you're
not here, right?
>>PARES: And the guy comes back
and he goes, you're not here.
He says, I have an
aircraft over Miami Beach.
And they're perplexed.
The ionized air dissipates.
And they're right
over Miami Beach.
>>NOORY: So, he was--
>>PARES: He actually
got projected.
>>NOORY: He was projected out.
Wow.
>>PARES: This non-sustainable
local warp space bubble
generated from
the thunderstorms.
And I'll tell you
just in a second here
how that actually is done.
But when he was
over Miami Beach,
this was like a second
had transacted here.
That's what I figure.
And he went 100 miles
in about a second,
which means he traveled
360,000 miles an hour.
>>NOORY: Just like that.
>>PARES: Yeah, just like that.
>>NOORY: And didn't
even know it.
Didn't even feel it, right?
>>PARES: Other than
that preliminary feeling
of a slight sense
of weightlessness
and a slight hydroplaning
of the aircraft
as he went through the tunnel.
And so that was really
fascinating to hear the story.
It took me another
couple of years
to figure out what was
really going on in there.
So, I began to analyze and look
at the internal thunderstorm
structures for the
electric field,
and came up with-- Earl Wilson,
in 1984, did a lot of research
on thunderstorm electrification.
And what he defined was a
very special tripole field.
And this would be designated as
plus at the top of the cloud,
minus at the freezing level in
the middle of the cloud, minus
again, and then
plus on the bottom.
And that constitutes what we
refer to as a tripole field.
So, two dipole fields, one
upright and one inverse.
Now, if you get two
thunderstorms together,
you get two tripole
fields facing each other.
And what I discovered
in the lab was
there's a cross-piece
that comes.
And when the fields
cross, they can actually
alter the fabric of space.
So, if we look back at it--
>>NOORY: This sounds
like "Star Trek."
>>PARES: And nature does it.
That's the intriguing part about
this, is nature's done this.
All we need to do, and
what I've done in my lab,
is to recreate this artificial--
getting the fabric of space
to actually compress.
So, if we were to look at an
accordion as normal space,
spread out like this,
here's distance from a to b.
And as we compress
it, we still have
that distance between
the back and front
part of the accordion.
But now we're just going
over a to b on this aspect.
Still the same distance, but
they're-- so as you compress
the fabric of
space, you can jump.
>>NOORY: So, you're working
on something that is
similar to what nature creates.
What is it?
>>PARES: Absolutely.
Actually, it was
the investigation
done with Bruce
Gernon's flight in 1970
that led me to discover
this particular function,
this anomaly within the clouds.
And the fact that he was able
to get a linear displacement
led me to start researching
some other cases that
claimed the same thing.
And I had a case from World
War II, Leland O'Brien.
He was a Tiger Moth pilot
that was testing out
some radar devices in 1940.
And he was in North London,
got caught up in a thunderstorm
late afternoon.
And he was ready to
just turn himself over.
God, take me.
And he spotted a hole
between these thunderstorms.
>>NOORY: Is that one of those
holes you were talking about?
>>PARES: Exactly.
And he saw a blue sky
on the other side.
Put the aircraft
right through there.
He ended up in northern England.
>>NOORY: How fast did it
take him to pop over there?
>>PARES: He was
just, like, a second.
>>NOORY: Jeez.
>>PARES: He was in
an open cockpit.
Tiger Moth's a bi-wing aircraft.
So, he was in an open cockpit.
And this bubble forms
up and around him--
>>NOORY: He didn't feel
the speed or anything?
>>PARES: Phew.
He was gone.
>>NOORY: It's like a wormhole.
>>PARES: Well, we don't want
to talk about the wormhole.
That's a whole different
kind of structure.
But a warp bubble actually
protects the crew.
The crew will never
feel the momentum.
Miguel Alcubierre, 1994,
came up with a theory
of how to generate a
warp bubble artificially.
And unfortunately, his
initial stab at this
required energy of the
universe to make the bubble.
It has since been whittled
down to Jupiter, the equivalent
force of a weight of
a Voyager spacecraft,
the amount of energy that you
would use to translate that
to a warp bubble.
But we discovered, as a result
of studying the thunderstorms--
we brought this into the lab.
And we've been able to generate
warp bubbles less than 25 watts
of power.
Now, we have a system
that we've developed
that's over 4,000
watts of power.
And our goal is to lift things
off the ground with this.
And we've been very successful
in 500 watts, 1 newton, 1,000
watts, 2 newtons of force.
And it goes kind
of exponentially.
So, as you get up with
the amount of newton
forces that you could begin
to lift off practical weights
off the ground.
And we haven't done this
yet, because we're still
in the testing mode
of the motor, which
emulates the tripole
fields of the thunderstorm.
We have a website,
Spaceport Dynamics LLC.
Just type all that in.
You can get to all the
pictures and the photographs
that we have of the engine.
We've made 15 different models.
The latest one is the icing
on the cake kind of stuff.
>>NOORY: Would you use
this in space flight?
>>PARES: Oh, absolutely.
Our ultimate goal
is to get to space.
Originally, we wanted
to be able to take
a terrestrial craft off
the ground, go to space,
and transition.
I think that we're going to
have to do a little bit more
crawling along.
But the motor functions
to such a degree that
at the just 2 newtons of force--
>>NOORY: And what do you
mean by newtons of force?
>>PARES: This is the
equivalent of work energy
that you would have.
I guess to give an
example, would be like
a small little rocket, an Estes
rocket with the small charges.
And you would be into the
area of about 5 ounces,
and getting a 2-newton force to
lift 5 ounces off the ground.
Now, that doesn't
sound like a lot.
But when you're in
space, that's a lot
of energy in comparison
to the ion drives
that exist out in space
right now, like Project Dawn.
That's only a 0.99 newtons
of force that's out there.
That's 0.99 hundredths
of a newton.
>>NOORY: But you're
saying nature
is creating this as well
in areas like the Bermuda
Triangle.
>>PARES: Yes, that's correct.
And I guess if you
were to approach
the scientific community,
they would probably
say that's impossible and
all this type of thing.
>>NOORY: But you've
seen it happen.
>>PARES: Well, we generate
it in our lab all the time.
And we've spent about three
and a half years now developing
the hardware.
And I first came into the lab,
I built a specialized antenna.
We had an interferometer.
We measured the
compression of a laser beam
into the interferometer
between the two antennas
that we had generated.
And we moved up from there.
The problem was, how do you
make this thing practical?
I mean, I can make all
the measurements I want.
We had red shift in it.
We had the compression
aspects of it.
We're able to move ferrous
and non-ferrous material
on a torsion bar with
monofilament line in a glass
case with the wood top
and bottom, sealed.
We've been able to position
the motor up to 140 centimeters
away and actually pull the
material towards the motor.
So, we have a pulling engine.
It's not a thrusting engine.
And it looks like a V.
And we shaped the field,
varying the V shape of it.
We use fractal
technology in the engine
to miniaturize the field so
that our engine right now
is about 2 foot in length.
>>NOORY: Now, how big would
you need one for, let's say,
a commercial plane?
>>PARES: Oh, a commercial plane?
Really, a lot of this is
focused on how much energy
do we have available to us.
We would end up making
a motor and actually
have several of
them in a pod that
would attach to the aircraft.
And that's part of our design.
It's a pod shape.
>>NOORY: And you
would be able to go
from LA to New York how fast?
>>PARES: In a matter of seconds.
>>NOORY: Are you kidding me?
>>PARES: No, I'm not.
>>NOORY: Up and over
and you're down.
>>PARES: Correct.
>>NOORY: Wow.
And this is realistic?
You're convinced 20 years
from now we'll be doing this?
>>PARES: I'm hoping
within the next five years
that we actually have an
opportunity to go to space,
we'll be showing our engine
to a number of major players
in the near future.
>>NOORY: This is amazing, David.
I mean to be able
to travel like that
would be just unbelievable.
>>PARES: Initially, like I
said, in comparison to the Dawn
spacecraft, they are able
to go 26,700 miles an hour.
>>NOORY: There go my
peanuts on a plane.
There'll be no time to get them.
>>PARES: With this motor, as
it stands right now, with our 2
newtons of force-- and we can do
this at 1,000 watts of power--
they have available on
a typical spacecraft
2,000 to 4,000 watts of power.
Ours would go 30
million miles an hour.
>>NOORY: 30 million
miles an hour.
>>PARES: Based on
the same impulse--
>>NOORY: You'd get to Mars in
an hour and a half, two hours.
>>PARES: Yeah.
That's right.
>>NOORY: Wow.
I've got some
questions here for you.
>>PARES: Sure.
>>NOORY: Larry from Portland.
He says, "Do you
believe that we'll ever
uncover the mystery behind the
disappearances in the Bermuda
Triangle?"
>>PARES: Well, like
I said, a lot of it
is encounters with
really severe weather.
The whiteouts occur a lot,
squalls, heavy rain activity.
When you get into massive
amounts of rain coming down
and you're caught
into the squall,
an engine failure is
possible, you know?
>>NOORY: Right.
You're toast.
>>PARES: Engine manufacturers--
jet engines, in particular-- I
mean, I've seen
some of the films.
They just pour water into
these things like crazy.
And they're trying
to make them fail.
>>NOORY: Yeah, they
want them to fail.
>>PARES: Exactly.
But a propeller-driven
aircraft, you get in there
and the water's coming through,
gets up into the carburetor,
and then you stall out.
>>NOORY: That's it.
You stall out.
You're gone.
>>PARES: You're down.
>>NOORY: That's serious.
"What advice," according to
Cynthia in Lubbock, Texas,
"would you give to people
who know they're flying
in the Bermuda Triangle?"
>>PARES: Check the weather.
It's a high-pressure--
>>NOORY: But it seems
to pop up pretty fast.
>>PARES: Yeah, it does.
Modern technology,
larger aircraft--
there's a lot of restrictions
with larger airliners, anyway.
You're not allowed to
fly near thunderstorms.
The new regulations only
put you within 20 miles
of a thunderstorm.
These things generate
gamma rays as well.
And these things
also have anti-matter
inside the thunderstorms.
A lot of people
don't realize this--
>>NOORY: My god.
>>PARES: --but
these thunderstorms
are extremely powerful.
If we can ever
tap into just one,
it would light up the whole US--
>>NOORY: For a long time.
>>PARES: --for a whole year.
And you'd even have
some left over.
Yeah, it's positrons.
That's a half million
electron volts
for every execution
of the positron.
Anti-matter.
And all this is generated
because of this 10
to the 15th watts of power
within these massive storms.
>>NOORY: Would you fly through
the Bermuda Triangle right now
knowing what you know about it?
>>PARES: Oh, I'm sure.
>>NOORY: You would?
>>PARES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Or take a ship?
>>PARES: Or take a ship.
I mean, there have
been-- again it's
in the wrong place,
the wrong time.
The best way to go
through would be obviously
a high-pressure system.
I mean, if I had to
advise somebody--
and I have advised some
crews of Air Force tankers
that have called and asked,
what should we be looking for?
And I've told them this is
the scenarios that you should
be looking for,
and that you need
to stay away as far
as possible from some
of these mammoth thunderstorms,
because they generate
so much electrical
energy, is that it's
a bi-directional flow--
that they shoot up to space
to almost 300 miles, the
Red Sprites and Blue Jets.
And they also transition
to the surface as well
and form a lightning
and all that.
There's a lot of
potential energy there.
>>NOORY: In the
old days, when we
didn't have metal craft, or
ships, or instrumentation,
merely wooden ships-- the
Santa Maria and things
like that-- would they still
be affected by the Bermuda
Triangle?
>>PARES: Well, the encounter
of this electronic fog
or the electrification
of the air.
Actually, Columbus
wrote in one of his logs
that he encountered a strange
cloud that surrounded the ship.
>>NOORY: He was in one of these.
>>PARES: Yeah.
And in recent times, 1904
in August, early August,
the "Mohegan," which
is a steamship-- iron--
was near the Delaware Water Gap.
And they encountered just
an ominous-looking cloud,
which was independent of
the rest of the clouds.
And it was-- had a gray cast
to it, and it covered the ship.
And they reported in
the newspaper back then
the chains of the ship,
they couldn't pull them
off the deck.
Everything was magnetized.
>>NOORY: Magnetized.
That's amazing.
>>PARES: And they had this--
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>PARES: --smell, a sulphuric
smell to this cloud.
And after about an hour
and a half or so, it just--
>>NOORY: Dissipated.
>>PARES: --wandered
off the ship.
But it drove the crew crazy.
>>NOORY: I bet it would.
I bet it would.
>>PARES: And they
were very upset.
When they docked, they
reported it to the newspaper
as being a very
strange encounter.
So, whether it be
marine or air, the area
of the Bermuda
Triangle has a lot
to offer as far as anomalies go.
But again, a lot of these
things that we discuss here
today can be seen in other
portions around the world.
>>NOORY: Right.
It's not just there.
>>PARES: It's not just there.
But the reason why
I studied that was
because I had more
availability of weather
records that I could then
begin to see as a trend.
>>NOORY: Sure.
It's a good way
for a comparison.
>>PARES: Exactly.
>>NOORY: What's
your website, David?
>>PARES: It's
spacewarpdynamicsllc.com
>>NOORY: You got to get
that LLC in there, right?
>>PARES: Well, just type in
Space Warp Dynamics and you'll
get it.
>>NOORY: You'll
still get it too.
Hey, thanks for
being on the program.
>>PARES: You're welcome.
>>NOORY: Since I
was a little boy,
as I mentioned at
the top of the show,
I've been fascinated with
the things and occurrences
at the Bermuda Triangle.
And it's nice to know that
someone like David Pares also,
when he was a young guy,
was fascinated by it too.
There's something to it.
It's an amazing area.
I don't know if I'd hesitate
flying through there or not.
I probably don't have
much of a choice, do I?
>>PARES: If the airline
is going that way,
that's where you're going.
>>NOORY: Thanks for
watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]